Let's take a look at some control structures, so conditionals, branching and loops, most of the stuff
you'd already be familiar with if you work with any programming language before.
But we'll go through this just to make sure that you understand the syntax of Julia so we can define
variables and then go ahead and do some conditionals based on those variables.
So we say if X is greater than 20, we print this line and we need to end the if block using the end
statement.
OK, so this is index.
You start a blog and you end it with the end statement.
You don't need to say.
And if it's just end, OK, some differences from for instance, by then you don't need a colon over
here and the indentation is ignored by the interpreter.
But obviously you should still do it right if you work with Java or C or C++.
A difference from those days that you don't need to have parentheses around the conditions in the IF
statement.
OK, so you can do that.
So that, as expected, brings X is greater than 20.
We can also have to demonstrate that let's do the usual visible example.
So given a number and we print fiz if N is divisible by three, but if it's divisible by five and FISAs,
if it's divisible by three and five, if it's not divisible by either, then we just end itself.
So if any is divisible by three and and is divisible by five fully we put in phase one else.
If so, that's the syntax.
And Julia Elif instead of Elif of Python and is divisible by three fully we print face and if it's divisible
by five we buzz and otherwise we print.
And so that's your typical if left letter.
So if you do that, we get phase four three, we get phase one for 30 and we should get the number 13
itself for 13.
OK, there is also a ternary operator so you can use it, but typically it's good practice to just avoid
it.
So here's this index.
So you have Exercycle two three and Y is equal to six.
We want to assign the value of the larger number to Z, so if X is greater than Y, then the return
value of this whole statement is going to be X, otherwise it's going to be Y.
So here's this index.
You have condition then the ternary operator and value.
If the condition is true, colon value of the condition is false.
So if we run that we get six for three and six.
And if you change this to thirteen and six, then we'll have the output as thirteen.
OK.
Hope that makes sense.
That's all there is to it for branching.
So if you have the understanding of if else, if that's all you need for Julia, we can also have iterations.
So the basic while loop has the exact same syntax, so vile and end.
And here you put the condition and this is the increment of the iterated variable.
So you can do that.
So I zero up to is nine.
OK.
So basic stuff.
Nothing important going on over here.
You can also loop over a list.
So nums is equal to one to nine, you can say forward in nums, NoCal and over here, just as with if
and you can say print l.n. of what.
So it goes from one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine.
And obviously it depends on what values you have over here.
OK.
So if the value that we have over it is 80, it gets printed out.
So fairly straightforward stuff.
You can also go from one to ten using this index.
So if you're familiar with Python's range function, this is what it does.
So forward in one to ten, it goes from one to ten, both included.
This is slightly different from the Python syntax.
Python stops just one value before this ending point.
Julia goes right up to the ending point.
So both are included in the statement.
So it depends on your preference.
For me, this is slightly more understandable if you are coming from a mathematical formula because
maths uses one based indices.
So it makes a lot more sense over here if you're coming from that, which is essentially what Julia
Doggett's, if you look at just one to ten itself outside of the actual loop, this is just one content.
So this is very similar to Python's range.
You can say type of one to 10.
So this is a unit range.
Once you loop over it, then it turns into this guy over here, basic stuff.
We are going to come back to this again and again when we actually use them.
I just want you to go over the basic syntax up front so that you're comfortable with the use cases when
you get to the real values of these basic building blocks.